Cross contract calls (#7)
aurora-is-near/AIPs: AIPs/aip-cross_contract_calls.md

---
aip:
title: Cross Contract Calls
description: Allow communication between Aurora and NEAR smart contracts.
author: Michael Birch (@birchmd), Marcelo Fornet (@mfornet)
discussions-to: https://forum.aurora.dev/t/cross-contract-calls/304
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Aurora-Engine
created: 2022-05-27
---

Find previous discussions about cross-contract calls at:

-   https://github.com/aurora-is-near/aurora-engine/discussions/461
-   https://github.com/aurora-is-near/aurora-engine/discussions/291
-   https://github.com/aurora-is-near/AIPs/pull/2

## Abstract

> Establish a mechanism that allows Aurora smart contracts to communicate with NEAR smart contracts via NEAR native _Cross Contract Calls_. It will be possible by introducing a new pre-compile that will permit any smart contract to call a NEAR smart contract. A new NEAR contract will be created per Aurora address on demand to provide authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Establish a mechanism that allows Aurora smart contracts to communicate with NEAR smart contracts via NEAR native _Cross Contract Calls_. It will be possible by introducing a new precompile that will permit any EVM smart contract on Aurora to call any NEAR smart contract. A new NEAR contract will be created per Aurora address on demand to provide authentication.
```

Throughout the document I think we should use "precompile" instead of "pre-compile". The former is spelling used in the Ethereum Yellow Paper.

### Input

The input to the precompile is a `CrossContractCallArgs` object serialized using [Borsh](https://borsh.io/). The object schema using rust syntax is:

```rust
pub enum CrossContractCallArgs {
    Eager(PromiseArgs),
    Delayed(PromiseArgs),
}

type AccountId = String;
type Yocto = u128;
type NearGas = u64;

pub enum PromiseArgs {
    Create(PromiseCreateArgs),
    Callback(PromiseWithCallbackArgs),
    Recursive(NearPromise),
}

pub struct PromiseCreateArgs {
    pub target_account_id: AccountId,
    pub method: String,
    pub args: Vec<u8>,
    pub attached_balance: Yocto,
    pub attached_gas: NearGas,
}

pub struct PromiseWithCallbackArgs {
    pub base: PromiseCreateArgs,
    pub callback: PromiseCreateArgs,
}

pub enum NearPromise {
    Simple(SimpleNearPromise),
    Then {
        base: NearPromise,
        callback: SimpleNearPromise,
    },
    And(Vec<NearPromise>),
}

pub enum SimpleNearPromise {
    Create(PromiseCreateArgs),
    Batch(PromiseBatchAction),
}

pub struct PromiseBatchAction {
    pub target_account_id: AccountId,
    pub actions: Vec<PromiseAction>,
}

pub enum NearPublicKey {
    Ed25519([u8; 32]),
    Secp256k1([u8; 64]),
}

> pub enum PromiseAction {

Reviewer: We could maybe remove this definition from here since batch actions will not be enabled when we first deploy this feature. See https://github.com/aurora-is-near/aurora-engine/pull/610#discussion_r982762217

### Gas cost

The EVM uses the following formula to compute the EVM gas cost.

```
cost = cross_contract_call_base + cross_contract_call_byte * input_len + attached_gas / cross_contract_call_near_gas

input_len: length of the input in bytes.
attached_gas: gas attached to the transaction.
cross_contract_call_base: 323_000
cross_contract_call_byte: 3
cross_contract_call_near_gas: 175_000_000
```

## Rationale

The main goal of the design is to provide an interface as simple as possible for Aurora users to communicate with other contracts in the NEAR ecosystem. While we acknowledge the interface is rather complex, the whole complexity arrives by making possible the following features:

-   Decentralized and Open: Developers and users can use Cross Contract Call interfaces without requiring approval.
-   Trustless: The system's security doesn't depend on any single entity.
-   Authentication: The target contract can verify the origin.
-   Multi-Aurora ecosystem: Every future deployment of the aurora engine can use the same infrastructure to execute Cross Contract Calls.

> 

Reviewer: We could maybe add a rational for the gas cost formula here. Something along the lines of the following.

The base cost and cost per byte of input were derived empirically by measuring the NEAR gas cost of running the precompile and fixing NEAR/EVM gas conversion rate at 175000000 NEAR gas per EVM gas. This conversion constant is also derived empirically based on mainnet data. The same constant is used in the last term of the gas formula to account for the gas the cross-contract call itself will spend. Note that in the case of an eager call the `attached_gas` represents the amount of gas the user has request be attached to the call they want to make, whereas in the delayed case `attached_gas` represents only the gas needed to store the data describing the user's call. This is because in the delayed case the actual execution of the user's call happens in a separate transaction, therefore its attached gas does not need to be accounted for in the EVM execution. Phrased another way, the NEAR `attached_gas` that is included in the EVM gas cost of the precompile is only the gas that will be spent as part of the same NEAR transaction as the EVM execution.

## Backwards Compatibility

All previous contracts should work as expected.

## Reference Implementation

Links to implementation on the engine:

> -   https://github.com/aurora-is-near/aurora-engine/pull/560

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   https://github.com/aurora-is-near/aurora-engine/pull/560
-   https://github.com/aurora-is-near/aurora-engine/pull/610
```
